{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Loose coupling emerges with realisation of separation of concerns and transparency between components. What does that imply for *semantical* loose coupling in an agent? Regarding the principle of separation of concerns, in its classical sense it refers to decomposing a system into parts with as minimal *functional* overlap as possible. It thus separates functionality that is required for a certain concern. In the semantic orientation, the ASM consolidates the software agent\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s semantic concern, viz. the reciprocity between data and data processing. Consequently, every model outside the ASM, collectively denoted as the system models, shall not introduce any new semantics: neither by specialisation nor association add or elaborate on any of the existing semantic meaning; neither by logic nor by mathematics add or modify its pragmatic meaning. Then, and only then, the semantic model assures that the agent applies one single conceptualisation only, and provides for consistency in referring to and appreciation of the state of affairs. In fact, in principle each and any element of the system models should find its semantic grounding in the ASM. Although such principled approach is possible, it is not a necessary condition. It suffices to only ground the semantics for modelling elements that refer to things outside the realm of ICT, viz. the DoA. Any other ICT-aspect is considered to fall under control of our own ICT-discipline, and hence a universal social agreement, e.g., a standard, eventually defines its semantics. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Regarding the principle of transparency, in its classical interpretation a component remains agnostic to }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 how}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  certain functionality has been achieved by another component, as long as it can be used by communicating with it with *minimal dependency*. In its semantic orientation it is impossible to become independent from the code model that provides us with the semantic meaning of terms; we cannot abstain from using syntax. Still, maintaining independence from the inference model is very useful in that it allow for components to remain agnostic about if and how a change in state of affairs is consequential for it, as long as it is informed when consequences apply to it.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This shows how semantics can be addressed in a loosely coupled fashion to consolidate the semantic concern with minimal dependency with the rest of the agent. However, it remains unclear what kind of services the ASM should provide to the rest of the agent. For its resolution we consider two orthogonal facets of use. Firstly, the ASM is simply yet another database but one that maintains a representation on the domain\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s state of affairs. Secondly, the ASM is about knowledge that describes the dependencies in the DoA. While the use of the data facet is characterised by standard CRUD services, use of the knowledge facet is characterised by the domain competencies that the ASM encapsulates. We will elaborate on the latter first. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 *Competency questions* [@Uschold1996;@Uschold1996a;@Gruninger1995;@Ren2014] represent for the ASM what requirements are for a piece of software: they collectively describe what we demand from the ASM, but since this demand is not about functionality but about knowledge, the term \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93competency\u8221\'94 is used instead. A competency question (CQ) is a question for which the agent demands answer.CQ\u8217\'92s are always about the DoA, e.g., \u8220\'93How many cats are in the garden?\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93what toppings are available for an American Pizza?\u8221\'94. The distinction between the functional demands that we set for a piece of software and the knowledge demands that we set for the ASM acts as watershed for the required semantic separation of concern}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Representation}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : The first and foremost concern is one of reference, viz. how do we represent a germane entity in the domain of application, uniquely over the agent\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s models? This is not a new service and has already been addressed throughout the years in what have been named information models, schemata, or ER-diagrams. For its interface this translates to exposing each and every concept that are addressed by the competency questions to the agent;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Structuring}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : Given any concept, the ASM should provide for any other concept that relates to it, either the particular relation that applies, or any logical relation that holds, e.g., subsumption, or disjointness;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Existence}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : also known as satisfiability, the ASM should provide for a means to assess whether a concept or relation has been instantiated by the current state of affairs;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Validity}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : given an expressed statement, the ASM should provide for the ability to assess its validity in the current state of affairs, returning True, False or Unknown (the ASM assumes an open world);}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Equivalence}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : given two concepts or individuals, assess whether these are equivalent to each other or not;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 5. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Membership}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : assert whether an individual is of a certain type or belongs to a certain concept;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 6. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Retrieval}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : find the individuals or concepts that respond to the competency questions;}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We consider these the most important interface demands since these consolidate the semantic concerns. It might be useful to extent these capabilities with a subscription mechanism to become informed of any changes in respect to the particular aspect of the current state of affairs.          }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0       }
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \ri-16963\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}