{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ---}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 title:  'Consolidating semantic interoperability in software architectures'  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 subtitle: 'Access-and-play semantic interoperability in contemporary architectural paradigms'  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 author:  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - name: Paul Brandt  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   affiliation: Eindhoven University of Technology; Netherlands Organization of Applied Scientific Research TNO, Den Haag, The Netherlands   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - name: Eric Grandry  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   affiliation: Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology, Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - name: Twan Basten  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   affiliation: Eindhoven University of Technology, Eindhoven, The Netherlands  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 category:   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 bibliography: src/bib/CitedByMe-2018_archSIOp.bib  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 csl: templates/environmental-health-perspectives.csl  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 abstract: |  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   *Background:* Access-and-Play SIOp is the next glass ceiling in ICT. We can think of two approaches to break through the ceiling, i.e., using either strong AI or weak AI. Strong AI is not yet available, while weak AI, despite its current applications in Semantic Web or ontologies, has not yet been embedded in contemporary software architectural paradigms. Current approaches towards SIOp can be considered accepted folklore.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   *Objective:* The objective of this study is to identify and define the fundamental guidance towards access-and-play semantic interoperability in contemporary architectural paradigms. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   *Method:* Our approach is based on the discipline of semiotics. After identifying semiotic shortcomings in MDA and view-based architectural paradigms and their subsequent definition as missing concerns, we develop the necessary guiding architectural principles. We finally investigate their consolidation in view-based and model-driven architectural paradigms. [We evaluate these principles by designing a reference architecture and proof its use in SIOp between two software agents.]}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   *Results:* The semiotic approach/discipline demonstrates/proves semantics to be the result of a reciprocity between data and the software code that operates on them. The major shortcomings in architectural paradigms to account for semantic interoperability are their negligence of semiotic fundamentals and, particularly, the absence of an explicit ontological commitment that stands at the root of semantics. Therefore, the concern about a semantic loose coupling should be added to the architectural paradigms. The supporting principles are (i) semantic transparency, (ii) semantic separation of concerns, and (iii) explicit computational semantics. In view-based architectures their consolidation implies a new semantic view, while the MDA paradigm requires an ontological commitment on M3. Both paradigms need to include an alignment-based semantic mediation capability. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   *Conclusions:* Access-and-play SIOp can be achieved when considering semiotic fundamentals and adding loosely coupled semantics to contemporary architectural paradigms.   }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ...}}