{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0 we explain with both definitions that the human side of meaning has two sides, the semantic and pragmatic sides. Analogous to that, we (should) state reciprocity between data and code applies always, and that its outcome either is or is not faithful to the state of affairs. The ASM, then, is introduced to get control over that very reciprocity. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We distinguish two types of definitions for the conceptualisation: by extension and by intension. An }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 extensional definition}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  explicitly }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 lists}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  all elements that are considered to be contained by the definition. This results in a mathematical set that includes all the elements for which the definition holds }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 by definition}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , and excludes those elements that do not take part in the definition. Consequently, this works for finite sets only. Contrarily, an }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 intensional definition}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is based on the formulation of a criterion that }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 produces}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  the set. In order to define an infinite set one requires an intensional definition. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-11066\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 These three definitions identify two aspects of the agent that are closely related, and often not even distinguished from each other, but together constitute the core of the agent\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s capability to act as vehicle for semantics. From an architectural perspective it is relevant to (i) make the distinction between both since each of them represent an inherently different aspect of semantics, and (ii) make the connection between them since, together, they alone are responsible for a consistent representation of *our* conceptualisation, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93(...) not in order to know *what there is*, but in order to know what a given remark or doctrine, ours or someone else\u8217\'92s, *says* there is\u8221\'94 [@Quine:1953er].}}