{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 A (modelling) language is used to convey distinctions. The predominant purpose of modelling is to describe (a particular domain in) reality by distinguishing the entities of interest. The distinctions that are already articulated by the elementary language constructs define the expressiveness of that language; the more distinctions the language elements can convey, the more differences can be represented by that language. The (fundamental) categories that the language elements can discern apply during modelling as a *commitment*, e.g., does the language commit to the intuitive difference between the cup and the coffee that it holds, or not? If it does, the language has one element that carries the elementary characteristic of liquidness, and another that shows the fundamental aspects of a substantial that you can hold and is the integrated whole of its subparts. The latter cannot function without all its subparts, like the cup that cannot be split in two, while the former maintains its fluidness no matter how often it is divided into or merged with other liquids. When the language does not provide (commit to) such distinctions, the user of the language is forced to specify the distinction in the model (and make code to act upon those distinctions!). Whereas domain analysts create models to represents the distinctions that the domain users deem relevant to consider in their domain, in philosophy [@Bricker2016], similar questions are asked but that relate to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93life, the universe and everything\u8221\'94 as opposed to a single domain of application. What *kind* of entities exist? Are the universal aspects that seem to be shared between individual entities, e.g., weight, taken to be }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 sui generis}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 ? These are questions \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93(...) not in order to know *what there is*, but in order to know what a given remark or doctrine, ours or someone else\u8217\'92s, *says* there is\u8221\'94 [@Quine:1953er]. What kinds of entity exist }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 according to a given theory or discourse}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 ? This is }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 meta-ontology}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  and the answers provide a generic framework of distinction that represents a useful meta-model to the domain analyst, denoted the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 foundational ontology}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 ^[also known as a top-level ontology or an upper ontology, but not here]. When we apply the distinctions that have been made by a foundational ontology as vehicle for the modelling language, these distinctions are said to represent the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 ontological commitment}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  of the language}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 .}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 That the ontological commitment is relevant for an architecture that deals with semantics is clear when we state that every language carries an ontological commitment. This follows directly from the fact that a modelling language will convey distinctions; every type of (linguistic or graphical) element will represent something else, and some element types must connect while others can not. No matter the ontological distinctions being semantical neutral or its opposite, implicit distinctions can only result in a model that carries semantics with suboptimal accuracy at best, but probably will represent semantic incoherences. Therefore, explicitly introducing the ontological commitment of the modelling language is necessary to control the semantic accuracy of the model.     }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 The ontological square [@Lowe2006] can be considered the most basic ontological commitment. It is obtained by considering two formal but independent distinctions: that between }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 types}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  (denoted }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 Universals}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 ) and }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 individuals}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  (denoted }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 Particulars}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 ); and that between }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 characteristics}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  (denoted }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 Qualities}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 , or properties) and their bearing substrates: }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 substantials}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  (denoted }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 Endurants}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 ). Confronting the two distinctions produces the ontological square, depicted in \\cref\{fig:onto-square-and-sextet\}(a) with their causal relations. Its extension into the ontological sextet [@Smith2005] is just to acknowledge that at some point the influence of time should be incorporated as well, entailing }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 events}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  (or }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 Perdurants}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 ) (\\cref\{fig:onto-square-and-sextet\}(b)). Clearly, similar formal distinctions can be observed in contemporary modelling paradigms at their uppermost meta-level: OMG\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s MOF pyramid distinguishes between the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 Association}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  and the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 Class}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  at its top level M3, whereas the Resource Description Framework\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s language distinguishes primarily between a }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 subject}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 , an }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 object}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 , and a directed }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 property}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  relation between them. All these meta-meta-models are very generic as their intention is to be applicable as a modelling language for virtually all circumstances. Unfortunately, being very generic implies that their use as ontological commitment, viz. their capability as a language to convey differences, is rather limited as well. For all examples above, it is impossible to differentiate, for example, between the cup and the coffee that it holds, while intuitively, these are not only very different from each other but including these distinctions does not limit its generic applicability as a language. The more extended an ontological commitment becomes, the more it can distinguish (as a language) between things that we are interested in. Despite the various flavours in foundational ontologies, we demand that such foundation provides for two mechanisms: Firstly, we are in need of a *principle of application*, a mechanism in accordance with which we can judge whether an individual belongs to a certain type (universal) or not; we should be able to give appropriate answers to questions such as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Is Yojo a cat?\u8221\'94 This is not only relevant in order to classify individuals, but also to understand the characteristics of the *instantiation* relation between types and individuals (addressed in \\cref\{characterising-ontologies-models-and-relations\}). Secondly, we are in need of a *principle of identity*, a mechanism to make a distinction between two individuals (particulars). Such principle must go beyond provisioning a unique label since such essentially represents, as we have seen, just a random token; in stead, we should be able to give appropriate answers to questions such as \u8220\'93Is Yojo *my* cat?\u8221\'94 For that, we are in a need for a discerning principle. Indeed such can *not* be found in the nature of things, since Quine\u8217\'92s remark above clearly identifies the need for a doctrine that determines the criterion for, here, identity. Hence the demand for the ability to specify a social convention about the principle of identity that is applied.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 ![The ontological square (a) according to [@Lowe2006], and its extension with time (b) producing the ontological sextet according to [@Smith2005].][def:osas] }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 The ontological sextet has been specialised into several flavours, called foundational ontologies, e.g., UFO [@Guizzardi:2015ky], GFO [@Herre2010], SUMO [@Niles:2001], YAMAYATO [@Mizoguchi:2010vv], BFO [@Grenon2004], DOLCE [@Masolo2002] and more, and with their similarities and differences between them [@Jansen2008]. Not all of them are intended to provide for a complete foundation as UFO, GFO and BFO do; several are primarily developed for facilitating particular philosophical theories (DOLCE), others (YAMAYATO, SUMO) are the result of research into mentioned theories. No matter the reason for their existence, they all assume a certain philosophical viewpoint with the purpose to accurately describe categories that exist in reality according to their viewpoint. We consider this the *philosophical cornerstone* that is required to produce semantics that are faithful to reality. We thus defend that the semantic validity of any proposition can only be assessed if and only if the underlying ontological commitment can be referred to. Furthermore, any assessment towards semantic interoperability of two semantic theories cannot be made without an assessment of the similarity between their underlying ontological commitments. Following our statement that every modelling language will carry an ontological commitment, it then remains the responsibility of the (domain) analyst to select the viewpoint that is most appropriate for its purpose, in order to select the modelling language that describes the types of things that exist in the domain of application the most accurate.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This leads to the definition of a design principle to its effect:}
\par\pard\plain \ri-8561\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{mmdp\}[Language appropriateness principle]\\label\{dp:language-appropriateness-principle\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Modelling the semantics of an application demands an explicit choice on modelling language based on the appropriateness of its underlying ontological commitment for the domain of application.}
\par\pard\plain \ri-8561\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\textbf\{Type of information:\} business  \\\\}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\textbf\{Quality attributes:\} (semantic) accuracy, reusability, consistency   \\\\}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\textbf\{Rationale:\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{enumerate\}}
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Any representation of semantics will carry an ontological commitment on account of the modelling language}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item An ontological commitment enforces a mould on the expressiveness and, hence, semantic distinctions that are presupposed by your modelling language;  }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item A too strict, invalid or too lossy expressiveness of the modelling language translates directly into loss of quality (notably the validity and accuracy) of the distinctions one can represent in the model about the application domain;}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item Ignoring the ontological commitment of the modelling language defies the purpose of the semantic model, which is to represent reality as faithfully as possible.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{enumerate\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\textbf\{Implications:\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{enumerate\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\item This principle is a necessary condition for the software agent to accurately transport the semantics between the involved humans, users and software engineers alike;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\item Application of the same modelling language implies the use of the same ontological commitment, resulting in improved and comparable consistency between their models of reality;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\item Based on consistent use of the ontological commitment, the reusablity of the ASM will improve significantly.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{enumerate\}  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{mmdp\}}
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 For reasons of space we will not elaborate on the mathematical principles which are foundational to the use of the ontological commitment [@Guarino1994;@Guarino:1998wq]. By token of embodying a doctrine, an ontological commitment can be applied everywhere under any circumstance. From that it can be seen easily that the mathematical foundation of an ontological commitment has to be formulated as an intensional definition, in order to maintain its universal applicability. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 <!-- page additions -->}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 [def:osas]: src\\images\\OntoSquareAndSextet.png \{#fig:onto-square-and-sextet width=80%\}}}