{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . To start with the latter and as indicated in \\cref\{fig:semiotic-triangles\}(b), we equate faithfulness with trueness between the representation and the entity in reality. Since this aspect is a characteristic of an indirect relationship, it can only emerge as a result of the adequacy and correctness characteristics. The former one concerns the conceptualisation aspect; in this section we address the correctness and show how differences can emerge between the conceptualisation and the model when constructing the latter. In literature, four construct issues are considered between a conceptualisations and its representation in a model, depicted in \\cref\{fig:construct-issues\}. An exhaustive treatment can be found in [@Guizzardi:2005vt], see also [@CarvalhoeSilva2012; or @Azevedo2015].}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ![Four different types of construction issues that come with formal semantics. Which one is more clear: (a)[@CarvalhoeSilva2012] or (b) [@Azevedo2015]?][def:constructissues] }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The more precise the representation of the conceptualisation, the higher its }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8C4D1061-E38D-4D54-97C6-F50AF5F079CD"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i1 comprehensibility appropriateness}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 .}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Semantic accuracy improves when minimising the four construct issues:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Construct overload}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , or }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 non-lucidity}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , emerges when the interpretation function maps an element from the abstract syntax onto more than one element (individual, subset) from the conceptualisation: One token can mean more than one thing, e.g., [|bank];}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Construct excess}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , or }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 unsoundness}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , represents an abstract syntax element that does not map onto an element from the conceptualisation: One token does not have a meaning at all;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Construct redundancy}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , or }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 non-laconicity}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , occurs when more than one abstract syntax element can be used to represent an element from the conceptualisation: More tokens mean the same, e.g., }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://256CAC71-D498-4B00-9EA1-E4CF70B469D0"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ...}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Construct deficit}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , or }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 incompleteness}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , specifies the situation where a conceptual element does not map onto a token: It is impossible to express a concept because the language has no token for it, e.g., [|....] (example intentionally left blank).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The best representation of a conceptualisation, then, is a model that is lucid, sound, laconic and complete, i.e., the interpretation/representation mapping is isomorphic. This is difficult to achieve, and due to the complete, accurate and complementary categories of how its carves-out the DoI, using the ontological commitment of the modelling language proves a useful tool in that respect.   }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In contemporary architectural paradigms, models are being used as first class citizens to the architectures, MDA, IEEE-1471 and ISP RM/ODP alike. It is therefore imperative to decide upon the major characteristics of a model. The distinction between descriptive and prescriptive models is broadly accepted, where a prescriptive model is used to }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 specify}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  its subject, and a descriptive model is used to }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 describe}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  its subject. As explained by [@Gonzalez-Perez2007], this distinction only addresses how the model is being used and does not express a complementary, disjunct property. In stead, a genuine dichotomy emerges when considering the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 role}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  that the model plays (ibid.). Then, a specification model generally takes a forward-looking role, specifying how the subject is supposed to be. A descriptive model, on the other hand, generally takes a backward-looking role and addresses the subject as it currently is, or once has been. In [@A\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u223\'DFmann2006], the relationship that a forward-looking model has with its subject is characterised as an }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 instance-of}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation, and that of a backward-looking model as an }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 is-represented-by}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation. Although we acknowledge the differences that exist, we consider both terms confusing when semiotics are involved since we cannot substantiate their suggested equivalence with the instantiation relation from the ontological square/sextet or the representation relation from the semiotic triangle. Instead, we observe that the characteristics of the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 refers-to}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation will specialise into a }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 declarative}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation for a forward-looking model: The entity is deemed to follow the rules that are specified by the model. Similarly, for a backward-looking model that provides for a representation of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93what a given remark or doctrine, ours or someone else\u8217\'92s, }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 says}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  there is\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94, the refers-to relation specialises into a }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 descriptive}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation. We thus observe that the refers-to relation is a causal relation, the direction of which is dependent on the model\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s characteristic: declarative towards the entity for a forward-looking model, while descriptive towards the token for a backward-looking model. As a consequence, we conclude that for forward-looking models their truth lies in their meta-models, as depicted in \\cref\{fig:linked-triangles\}(b). Mutatis mutandis, the truth for backward-looking models lies in the entities they describe. }
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0      }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Explain: difference between ontologies and models}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     i. Models lack an elaborate ontological commitment, domain ontologies naturally evolve on foundational ontologies (that express an ontological commitment)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     ii. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\strike\strikec0 For prescriptive models, truth lies in meta-models}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (good for deterministic behaviour); ontologies are }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\strike\strikec0 descriptive models for which the truth lies in reality}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (good for semantics)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     iii. ontologies have open world assumption (semantic under-specification), models have closed world assumption (data remain consistent, good for performance)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     iv. Models specify systems, ontologies conceptualise reality (entities) }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Try to also connect the onto/model distinction with above principles }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Induced problem: from OWA (domain ontologies) to CWA (information/data models), viz. how to get closure?}
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Principle: use domain and business ontologies for \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93computational independent\u8221\'94-ish models [@A\u223\'DFmann2006]}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0     * Bridge descriptive --> prescriptive models by grounding all prescriptive model elements with concepts from descriptive model (see e.g. \\cref\{fig:OntosInMDE\}).}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-16872\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In the remainder of this text we will refer to the formulation of the reference conceptualisation as a *conceptual model*.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ![The use of ontologies in MDA, from [@A\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u223\'DFmann2006]][def:ontoMDA]}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}