{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Apart from this strict semiotics notion, semantics are also influenced by philosophy and need consensus on the question \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93when are we committed to the existence of certain entities?\u8221\'94. It is relevant to acknowledge that humans maintain assumptions and background knowledge, both of which impact their semeiosis and, hence, semantics. This is where the conceptualisation plays an important role as frame of reference to our understanding, also denoted as the *ontological commitment*. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When the domain analyst asks questions in order to determine the entities that play a role for a particular (domain of) application, the resulting model (of the conceptualisation) represents the commitment that the domain users have about the entities that they consider relevant to discern. We denote this the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 domain commitment}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  from the users to their domain. In philosophy [@Bricker2016], similar questions are asked that relate to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93life, the universe and everything\u8221\'94 as opposed to a single domain of application: What *kind* of entities exist? Are the universal aspects that seem to be shared between individual entities, e.g., colour of weight, taken to be }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 sui generis}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ? These are questions of ontology. However, in a somewhat more pragmatic view these questions can be asked in a more constrained, methodological nature: What kinds of entity exist }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 according to a given theory or discourse}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ? This is a matter of }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 meta-ontology}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and its answers provide for a generic framework of distinction that represents a useful meta-model to the domain analyst, denoted the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 ontological commitment. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A language is used to convey distinctions, distinctions that are articulated by its ontological commitment.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Modelling languages need to show distinctions that are of relevance to the purpose of modelling. The predominant purpose of modelling is to describe (a particular domain in) reality by distinguishing the entities of interest. The ontological commitment for a modelling language therefore should be of ontological nature, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93(...) not in order to know *what there is*, but in order to know what a given remark or doctrine, ours or someone else\u8217\'92s, *says* there is\u8221\'94 [@Quine:1953er]. The ontological square [@Lowe2006] can be considered the most basic one, which is obtained by considering two formal but independent distinctions: that between }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 types}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (or }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Universals}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) and }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 individuals}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (or }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Particulars}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ), and that between }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 characteristics}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (or }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Properties}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) and their }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 bearers}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (or }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Substrates}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ). The resulting four categories are depicted in \\cref\{fig:onto-square-and-sextet\}(a) with causal relations that exist between them. Its extension into the ontological sextet [@Smith2005] is just to acknowledge that at some point the influence of time should be incorporated as well. This has been depicted in \\cref\{fig:onto-square-and-sextet\}(b). Clearly, similar formal distinctions can be observed in contemporary modelling paradigms at their uppermost meta-level: OMG\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s MOF M3 metametamodel distinguishes between the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Association}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Class}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , while the Resource Description Framework\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s language distinguishes primarily between a }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 subject}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , an }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 object}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , and the directed }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 property}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation between them. All these ontological commitments are very generic, intended to be applicable for all circumstances. Unfortunately, being very generic, the ontological commitments remain very sparse regarding their capability as a language to distinguish; for all examples above, it is impossible to differentiate, for example, between the cup and the coffee that it holds, while intuitively, these are very different from each other. The more extended an ontological commitment becomes, the more it can distinguish as a language between things that we are interested in.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ![The ontological square (a) according to [@Lowe2006], and its extension (b) producing the ontological sextet according to [@Smith2005].][def:osas]}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The ontological sextet has been specialised into several flavours, all called \{upper-level | top-level | foundational\}^[Please select the term you like best.] ontologies, e.g., UFO [@Guizzardi:2015ky], SUMO, YAMAYATO, BFO, DOLCE and more, and with their similarities and differences between them [@Jansen2008]. Not all of them are intended to provide for a complete foundation (UFO, BFO); several are only facilitating (DOLCE), or the result of (YAMAYATO), research into particular philosophical theories. No matter the reason for their existence, they all assume a certain philosophical viewpoint with the purpose to accurately describe categories that exist in reality according to their viewpoint. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We consider this the philosophical cornerstone for semantics: we can assess the semantic validity of any proposition if and only if the underlying ontological commitment can be referred to. Furthermore, any assessment towards semantic interoperability of two semantic theories cannot be made without an assessment of the similarity between their underlying ontological commitments. Note, however, that \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93We look to (\u8230\'85) Ontology not in order to know *what there is*, but in order to know what a given remark or doctrine, ours or someone else\u8217\'92s, *says* there is\u8221\'94 [@Quine:1953er]. It then remains the responsibility of the (domain) analyst or ontology engineer to select the viewpoint that is most appropriate for its purpose, in order to select the modelling language that describes the types of things that exist in the domain of application the most accurate.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 <!-- page additions -->}
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [def:osas]: src\\images\\OntoSquareAndSextet.png \{#fig:onto-square-and-sextet width=500px height=250px\}}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}
