{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \tab }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Then, section 3.2 is about the faithfulness of the model. We equate Faithfulness with the level of trueness between the representation and the entity (depicted in Fig.2.1b), which is only indirectly constructed by addressing the direct causalities of adequacy and correctness.  Adequacy is about the engineering process of abstracting reality, and we don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t say anything of that. So we are left with correctness, and we should better elaborate on its underlying pillars::}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. the applicability of its ontological commitment, by Principle 3.1}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2. Accuracy: does the concept include all the individuals that belongs to it and not more?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3. Completeness: does the concept include all the individuals that belongs to it and not less?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \tab }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This is done by addressing the difference between:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. the language extension, that is, the set of all statements that are possible to make according to the language\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s graphemes, vocabulary, and/or syntax;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 and}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2. the correctness of the resulting model, that is, the set of all statements in the language that describes the relevant part of the perceived reality. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 With correctness, we refer to accuracy, validity, and completeness.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Additionally, in [@A\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u223\'DFmann2006], the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 relationship}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  that a forward-looking model has with its subject is characterised as an }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 instance-of}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation, and that of a backward-looking model as an }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 is-represented-by}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation. Although we acknowledge the differences that exist, we consider both terms confusing when semiotics are involved since we cannot substantiate their suggested equivalence with the instantiation relation from the ontological square/sextet or the representation relation from the semiotic triangle. Instead, we observe that the characteristics of the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 refers-to}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation will specialise into a }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 declarative}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation for a forward-looking model: The entity is deemed to follow the rules that are specified by the model. Similarly, for a backward-looking model that provides for a representation of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93what a given remark or doctrine, ours or someone else\u8217\'92s, }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 says}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  there is\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94, the refers-to relation specialises into a }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 descriptive}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  relation. }}