{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Software represents a token-based machine unable to close the gap between token and reality. This fundamental *Grounding Problem* [@Harnad1990] is hardly addressed [@Steels:2008tr], if at all [@Cregan2007]. Software, thus denies the semiotic triangle its conceptualisation vertex, the sign becomes \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93beheaded\u8221\'94, remaining incomplete. Consequently, humans perform semeiosis, whereas the software agent acts as as semantic vehicle between the humans, software engineers and end-users alike. The core question is what is required in a software agent to properly accomplish this role.  }
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We defend that, in software, reciprocity between data and data processing determines semantic validity: the (values of) data influence the outcome of the data processing, and vice versa, the way data are processed determines the conclusions. For instance, consider a data token $T_d$ with value \\token\{t = 40.3\} to represent [|temperature], and a data process token $T_p$ to establish [|fever] (\\token\{t > 37.0\} $\\to$ \\token\{fever\}). Software is kept referring to a valid state of affairs by both data and process applying identical background knowledge on its *value*, e.g., unit of dimension ($\\celsius$ in this example), resolution, accuracy; and on *ontology*, e.g., this particular data token represents a *quality* belonging to a specific *substance*, the substance being [|human] as opposed to [|cats] (that possess higher fever criteria), and [|fever] a *phase* in the life of humans. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-16974\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The above results in \\cref\{dp:reciprocity\} in \\cref\{tab:dps\}.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Here, pairs of data and data processing code emerge that show high coherence while maintaining low or no coupling with other pairs. Whenever the data in a pair refers to the state of affairs (SoA) in the domain of application (DoA), that pair implements a strict coupling between the semantic meaning and the pragmatic meaning. Consequently, their semantically valid reciprocity is essential to maintain for acting as semantic vehicle. We reflect this in the following definition.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{mmdef\}[Atomic semantic monolith]\\label\{def:atomic-semantic-monolith\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 An Atomic Semantic Monolith (ASM) encapsulates a pair of tokens, $\\pair\{\\token\{T\}_d; \\token\{T\}_p\}$, that constitutes the valid reciprocity between data and software code as a reduced form of semantics, where:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\begin\{itemize\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item $\\token\{T\}_d$, the data token, carries the \\emph\{semantic\} meaning, specifying concepts, their taxonomy and (onto)logical relations and (types of) values that apply;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0   \\item $\\token\{T\}_p$, the data processing token, carries the \\emph\{pragmatic\} meaning, specifying logical, physical or business rules and their constraints. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{itemize\}}
\par\pard\plain \ri-16946\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\emph\{Valid reciprocity\} denotes the degree to which the collective outcome of processing all potential data tokens by the process token refers to the intended states of affairs in reality. \\emph\{Monolithic\} refers to the non-dividable whole of $\\pair\{\\token\{T\}_d; \\token\{T\}_p\}$  }
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\end\{mmdef\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Together, they not only *specify* the representation and determination of the state of affairs, they also *represent* the actual state of affairs, turning the data set into a digital reflection of the DoA.     }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 <!-- page additions -->}
\par\pard\plain \ri-10760\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [def:softmodelsreal]: src\\images\\SoftwareModelsReality.png \{#fig:software-models-reality\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}