{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri-16946\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The principles behind the concept of the ASM represent the basis for the definition of a view: semantic coherence (\\cref}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \{dp:semantic-coherence-principle\}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) and atomicity (\\cref}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \{dp:atomicity\}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) are indeed at the core of addressing the semantic concerns in terms of the system\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s architecture. To address semantics, the ASM includes not only the elements of the passive structure (information and data objects), but also the behaviour structure (rules and processes) acting on the passive structure for each element of the active structure (the agents of the system). The coherence principle (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\cref\{dp:semantic-coherence-principle\}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) edicts that both aspects cannot be separated, but also establishes rules on how to guarantee that the coherence is maintained. The atomicity principle (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \\cref\{dp:atomicity\}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) edicts that the scope of the ASM in terms of structural elements, should be delimited by what is required to express a semantic element. Combining those principles guarantees  that the foundational design principle of high cohesion is applied when addressing the semantic concerns associated with the system. We therefore state that the ASM itself subsumes the semantic viewpoint of the system and needs to be integrated as such in the architecture description of the system. This viewpoint conforms with ISO42010, and is an instance of the generic viewpoint: it does address the semantic concerns of the stakeholders , and it is described by semantic models covering both the passive and the behaviour structure of the system.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ADLs such as ArchiMate only partially support the ASM viewpoint: they provide the required construct to identify the data (passive structure) and the data processing (behaviour), as well as the agent (active structure) assigned to the behaviour. They however lack the support for actual semantic description. It is quite common for ADLs, to be considered a higher level modelling language, and to be complemented with lower-level language (such as BPMN in the description of business processes). \\Cref}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \{dp:language-appropriateness-principle\}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  brings ontological commitment as the foundation for language appropriateness. We consider this as the bed for a language specification dedicated to the design of models belonging to the semantic view. It is the model kind that the ISO42010 standard defines as part of the definition of a viewpoint, which captures the conventions for a type of modelling: it requires that the models belonging to a view are expressed in a modelling language specified in the governing viewpoint. This principle, therefore, even strengthens the definition of a viewpoint according to the standard, and the ASM defines a viewpoint, but also provides with the requirements for the language supporting the description of a view according to the governing viewpoint.  }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}