{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Considering the ASM as an architecture view of the system means that it is of relevance to address the expected qualities of the system. The importance of system qualities has evolved over time, surfing on the technological evolution of the system\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s underlying infrastructure. Scalability was a major issue in the deployment of the first web applications intended to be used by a myriad of users, but it seems this quality goal is now solved. In today\u8217\'92s increase of business digitalisation and system\u8217\'92s distribution, information security is probably the most critical quality goal [}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://BAFA031C-6FC3-46A7-8CBB-F6397E86C440"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 REF}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ]. To clarify how the semantic component, the ASM, improves the quality of the overall software agent we show how the ASM improves Information Assurance and Security (IAS).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The Reference Model of Information Assurance and Security (RMIAS) proposes to formalise the information assurance and security domain knowledge. It addresses recent trends in information security, and does not cover only the description of the domain but also the methodological knowledge [@Cherdantseva2013a]. According to [@Cherdantseva2013], Information Security is a multidisciplinary area of study and  professional activity which is concerned with the development and implementation of security countermeasures of all available types (technical, organisational, human-oriented and legal) in order to keep information}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  free from threats:}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  in all locations within and outside the organisation\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s perimeter and information systems, and whenever the information is created, processed, stored, transmitted or destructed. Information Assurance is a multidisciplinary area of study and professional activity which aims to protect business by reducing risks associated with information and information systems by means of a comprehensive and systematic management of security countermeasures, which is driven by risk analysis and cost-effectiveness. The IAS domain is holistically addressing the protection of information by combining security measures of different types. The holistic aspect of RMIAS is materialised by the 4 dimensions of the model: }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * *Security }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Development Life Cycle (SDLC)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * expresses that IAS is built up along the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 full system life cycle}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and that all stages are equally relevant;  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * *Information Classification* characterises with its }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 the RMIAS taxonomy }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 the nature of information being protected, and integrates dimensions such as the *form* of Information, its *sensitivity*, *location*, and *state*, qualifying the context in which the information is managed; }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * *Security }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Goals}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * refers to a broadly applicable list of eight goals (extending the usual CIA triad) of *Confidentiality*, *Integrity*, *Availability*, *Accountability*, *Authentication (and Trustworthiness)*, *Non-repudiation* and *Privacy and Auditability*; }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 * *Countermeasures* categorise the techniques and processes helping to achieve one or more security goals. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 From these, the information classification dimension of RMIAS is the cornerstone of the model, as it is the information context that will impose the security goals to be achieved. It basically means that the same Information will induce various security goals depending on the form it takes, on its sensitivity, on its processing location and its state. For example, a document restricted to internal use only will require a high level of confidentiality, while a document publicly available will require a high level of integrity, but no actual confidentiality. The document itself can carry the same information, and the context of its use is therefore as important as its content. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The state of information is of particular interest for the ASM. Information is at every moment of its life cycle in one only possible state: creation, transmission, storage, processing or destruction. That state has a major impact on the security goals to be achieved and security measures to apply. At creation, integrity is very important, especially in business systems, and auditability and accountability should be achieved. At transmission, information integrity, authenticity and trustworthiness are the primary objectives. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The RMIAS practitioners, as well as InfoSec practitioners applying other methodological approaches (ISO 27000 - }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A92760CF-6075-4B31-BD18-20EE5FE17980"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 to be completed}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) know that the description of the information alone does not help to analyse the security goals and determine the appropriate security measures. There is a need to understand the processing context of the information: in the end, although the security goals are (mostly) targeting the information itself, the security measures are deployed in the information system, i.e. the socio-technical system delivering information services to achieve business objectives. This is what RMIAS is all about: understanding how, when and why the information is processed. And this is what the ASM is able to answer. By maintaining the cohesion between information data and information processing, the ASM is the tool that can help better address IAS and improve methodological approaches in that domain. The ASM indeed carries the capability to answer questions such as: what are the processing rules associated with that information? How is information classified at this specific stage of processing? }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ISO27002:2015 requires that organisations classify information along sensitivity, criticality and value, but also acknowledges that consensus on such a classification in a context of information sharing is hard to achieve: information has different value for each organisation sharing that information. The semantics carried by the ASM can also bring an answer to this kind of divergence: the ASM indeed natively supports that the same information may be the subject of different processing rules. Since each organisation will have its own ASM it can now also expresses its own business value of its information, }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://84801B50-09A6-46B2-A50D-2119F202563F"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 and will need to ensure the interoperability with the others}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . }}