{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Still, the most popular solution towards SIOp is to establish a convention on the semantics of the terms that are used during the collaboration. This convention "resolves" the grounding problem in that it represents the know-how to "decode" the data, i.e., to connect the term with what it stands for in reality. Be aware that the realm of that know-how, denoted here as *background knowledge*, represents a semantic monolith, and it is being demarcated by its use in design time only: any software engineer who is made aware of that background knowledge, through bilateral agreements, domain-specific standards or other conventions, can design and implement measures to apply the data in accordance to what they refer to in reality. This solution is not wrong *per se*, and has as bonus that it does away with the consequences of the unresolved grounding problem because each and every term has already been grounded to everybody's satisfaction. In fact, for long-standing and stable collaborations between software agents, which live in business domains that experience only marginal changes in their business, semantic conventions are the most appropriate approach towards SIOp. Nevertheless, when foreign data emerge that are to be used within the semantic monolith, or when the native data are to be used outside the semantic monolith, SIOp, and hence the IT, will fail. SIOp fails because the convention was not shared to these foreign software agents. Moreover, any run-time attempt to communicate the background knowledge that is reflected by the convention is doomed to fail, because knowledge is just data and thus represented by terms that, in this case, are ungrounded. Again, human intervention is required. This time its purpose is not to resolve the grounding problem, but to bridge the semantic gap that originates from differences in groundings between each pair of collaborating software agents. This is called *semantic reconciliation*, and results in an *alignment* between both groundings. Although weak AI can support in that task [@Euzenat:2013ie], due to its inherent limitations it cannot fulfill the task completely without human intervention. In conclusion, to break the semantic monolith and provide a pair of software agents with SIOp, human intervention is required to produce an alignment between the semantic groundings of each software agent. The issues in this matter relate to (i) the inherent conflict between having a human in the loop and an access-and-play demand; (ii) ***analyse the paragraph below and formulate its issues concretely here*** .\line }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}