{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ISO42010 acknowledges that the architecture of a system needs to be described from multiple viewpoints, and that these viewpoints are not independent of each other. Each architecture viewpoint addresses the concerns of stakeholders having an interest in the system.The standard inherits many concepts from system thinking and complexity management, specifically by leveraging modelling artifacts as first class citizens of the architecture description. This approach in addressing the inherent complexity of today\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s socio-technical systems is opposed to reductionism (functional decomposition), and natively integrates the principle of separation of concerns, specifically through the abstraction mechanism. Modelling a system by multiple views is therefore a strong enabler for designing system architecture: the concerns of the many stakeholders are addressed, including the technical concerns in the form of the quality attributes. This approach was already in use before the publication of the standard, and we can consider it as a generalisation of well-known approaches in software analysis and design, such as the 4+1 views [@Kruchten1995], but also approaches dedicated to specific domains, such as the conceptual, logical and technical views on data models. The standard does not prescribe what concerns to address, what viewpoint is the uttermost important. It is supposed to support all paradigms, and leaves the identification of the viewpoints and interdependence rules to the specific architecture framework (and architecture description language, ADL). As such it can be considered a general framework for architecture description. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When analysing the architecture of a system, }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D267183F-73CF-4818-9218-C068332C4F77"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 the ArchiMate project [REF]}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  concluded that a system should primarily be described according to 3 dimensions (the aspects of the system): the active structure, the behaviour and the passive structures. The active structure is made of the structural elements of the system capable of performing activity, i.e. the subjects of activity. The behaviour is performed by the active structure (process, function, service). The passive structure is made of the objects on which behaviour is performed, the objects of activity. The definition of each aspect includes the interdependency amongst the aspects: active structural elements are assigned to behavioural elements, behavioural elements act on passive structural elements. The ArchiMate language is the outcome of this research project, and does support the description of the system according to those 3 aspects: the language provides constructs to conceptualise elements of each of these dimensions: actor and role, process and function, business and data object. The dependencies amongst the elements of these 3 structures are managed by applying the layering patterns: the business, application and technology layers were initially introduced, complemented later with the strategy (upper) layer and the physical (lower) layer. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As a modern ADL, ArchiMate language supports the description of a system from multiple viewpoints and does conform to the standard 42010. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}