{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Shell Dlg 2;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri-10862\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Never before, data were so ubiquitous, and managed access to external data was so easy. Because current ICT is unable to *use* all that same external, non-native data as access-and-play service, agility in business collaboration is hampered in all domains. For }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EEE2414B-96B2-43F0-8DE2-A0700E7F892D"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0 instance}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 , consider two nations each of which registers a company, as follows:}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Nation A:}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 `RegisteredOrganisation ---hasCompanyCode--> `}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 `           CompanyCode ---hasNotation--> \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93DX-2004/84492\u8221\'94`}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Nation B:}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 `MaatschappelijkeActiviteit ---hasKvkNummer--> \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93DX-2004/84492\u8221\'94`}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 In this simple example we already see two issues that hamper interoperability between the nations. Firstly, use of different terms for equivalent things, and secondly, application of different structures to express equivalent things. When the values had denoted a magnitude as opposed to the current identifier, e.g., a temperature, a third complication would be the use of different measures of unit. In order to achieve that both nations can actually *use* their peers data, we need to design and implement wrappers that convert between the variations in terms, structures and units; not once, but *for every element in the data scheme*. Many such *semantic interoperability* (SIOp) issues exist, and a short overview is given in Section/Appendix ##. It is fundamentally impossible to automate the production of wrappers, because we need a genuine *understanding* of the variations upfront the implementation of the conversion.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 So, lack of automated SIOp represents the next glass ceiling for ICT. The most disconcerting consequences are time-to-deliver, flat interoperability failures, and even seemingly correct but quite invalid data analysis probably leading to devastating system behaviour. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Current SIOp implementations are essentially based on the (time-consuming) process of establishing a convention on the semantics of the terms that are exchanged during collaboration. Such conventions can be considered a semantic monolith, which makes dealing with data outside the monolith impossible, unless again a time consuming (months) semantic adoption process is applied. Moreover, these semantic conventions consider semantic heterogeneity as a bug instead of a feature necessary to achieve semantic accuracy. But still, this conventions-based approach towards SIOp is accepted folklore in ICT. In view of the large uptake of the Internet, the Internet of Things (IoT), cloud computing and big data, and in view of economical pressure to intensify enterprise collaboration, we consider this approach "too little, too late". }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Business agility will emerge once you remove the semantic monolith. Then, you only have to access-and-play, namely (i) achieve SIOp in due time (ii) with all external data. In this way, software systems, applications or software components -- henceforth collectively denoted as software agents -- can quickly realise collaboration, also with data not anticipated for during software design, at any point in their life cycle. Metaphorically speaking, we consider access-and-play SIOp as a }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 bridge}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  overarching a (semantic) gap: with *bridgeheads* on each side of the gap, with a *spanning* resting on them to structurally support the bridge and its traffic, and with a *roadway* enabling the crossing of the traffic. Finally, architectural *principles* provide the necessary guidance to the architect for the various design decisions that effectively result in a particular bridge over a particular (semantic) gap. Our contributions to consolidating semantic interoperability in software architectures are fourfold, and represented as architectural principles and concerns, as follows:}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 * }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Principles}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 : We base SIOp on establishing loose-coupling at the semantic level by introducing principles on semantic separation of concerns and semantic transparency (Section ##), and show how these principles can be operationalised;}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 * }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Semantic concerns (bridgehead)}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 : Based on the discipline of semiotics, we provide for a fundamental notion on software semantics and include this as a separate artifact contributing to the software agent. We show how such explicit notion on semantics fits with other architectural components (Section ##);}
\par\pard\plain \ri-10862\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 * Weak AI concerns (spanning): Since \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93strong AI\u8221\'94 does not yet exist, SIOp remains in demand of human intervention in order to reconcile the semantic differences between collaborating software agents. We reduce the necessary human intervention to complement weak AI to a task that suffices in the context of SIOp, viz. authoring semantic alignments only (Section ##);}
\par\pard\plain \ri-10862\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 * }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Mediation concerns (roadway)}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 : We provide for a prototypical implementation of a mediator as the necessary component to automatically translate data when transferred between the collaborating software agents (Section ##);}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Based on these contributions we [argue/defend] that a definitive SIOp should aim at an access-and-play potential as upfront \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93design to collaborate\u8221\'94.}
\par\pard\plain \ri-10862\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0}